---
title: "The Man"
date: "2022-03-10"
draft: false
author: "Milly Rowett"
tags: ["Transparency", "Musings"]
summary: "With International Women's Day upon us once more, I muse more about what transparency actually means..."
---

Happy International Women's Day! 

Around my company at the moment we've been talking a lot about the gender pay
gap, more female software engineers and salary and levelling transparency. I am
in all the conversations, I right there asking the questions of leadership with
all the other individual contr-

Oh wait.

I am leadership now too. 

I am...

**The Man.**

Well not literally. But I am part of the `problem` now. I am part of the power
structure that is helping to creating an opaque information well around
diversity targets and compensation bands. 

Recently, I went through annual compensation planning as a manager for the first
time. It was a peak behind the curtain; a look into how the sausage was made for
annual salary reviews. It was eye opening, and what struck me was how much
everyone _cared_ about making everything as fair and equitable as possible with
the budget we had. I saw no evil moustache twirling, no frugality or bias
towards underrepresented minorities. 

When asked about the process by engineers I felt panicked. Was I allowed to tell
people how we calculated the numbers? Was I allowed to share salary bands and
other information? Was that secret EM-only business?

I had only gotten this role recently, would I be thrown out into the wastes
where all the EMs who didn't follow the rules lie?

But then again, all this information shouldn't be secret. As an IC, I hated not
knowing how all this stuff happened behind closed doors. Now I have an
opportunity to be as authentic and transparent as I can be. 

So why shouldn't I? I'll probably keep going till someone tells me to stop.


-- **Milly Rowett**

